---
title: "Some small naming issues"
date: 2022-10-11T16:02:00-04:00
draft: false
---

I've been working on the code generation in several areas and I've decided
that I'm going to be consistent with names of things.

* As protobuf does, always use singular for a collection of things.
* Never use snake case in names or filenames.  (Arrgh! Hugo expects filenames with
underscores!)
* In filenames, dont use capitals because of filesystem differences.  So a filename 
is more like compressed snake case than camel case.
* Versions are a pair (tuple of size 2) of _(version name,variant)_.  The current 
version is <strong>atlanta.base</strong>.
* Version names are cities with the first version being Atlanta. From there they will 
proceed alphabetically on the first letter, with the next version likely to Boradino.
* Variants are to deal with either supersets or subsets of the "base" code.  Subsets
are for restricted variants (like a "safe to run other people's code" variant) and
supersets are for non-standard features.  
* Put the version in the path inside for all parigot code so that somebody who wants
to can merge the "head" of the repo with some older version name or some other variant.
* Ignore three specific parts of the `buf lint` output that relate to names: 
  * Services do not need to have the suffix "Service".  That's just redundant.
  * Packages do not have to have the version number in the path.  First, parigot
  itself uses the version scheme above. Second, for go developers, the use of the
  v1 suffix causes the go mapping of packages to directories to be nasty and you end
  up having to rename pretty much every import.  I've set my directories up so that
  the last path component is "the one you want".
  * Packages do not have to match the path _for the input_ of protoc-based generators.
  In other words, you can cluster your ".proto" files together and configure the output
  directories of the protoc-based generators as appropriate.  This makes the path 
  names significantly shorter by cutting out a lot of empty directories.  The `proto` 
  directory, with this approach can and should be a first-level directory in your 
  app's workspace.  The _generated_ code will have lots of extra empty directories, 
  but the autocompletion of any modern IDE makes that not a problem.
  For example, if you have a ".proto" file that declares its
  contents to be in package "foo.bar.baz", the source code for this might be 
  `proto/mystuff.proto` relative to your project root, but the generated code will
  be in `proto/gen/foo/bar/baz/mystuff.p.go`, or similar for other languages.
* Files that are generated by parigot tools have the suffix ".p.\<normalsuffix\>" as shown
with the generated go code in example above.
